README.md, before:

Simplero API Documentation
==========================

The API is REST, using JSON for serialization, with no root element.

You'll notice right away that this API is not exactly complete. If you need anything, please ask.
I'm Calvin Correli (calvin@simplero.com), the founder, CEO, and creator of Simplero, and I'm always open
to your input, and we're flexible about adding additional API calls.

We also have one webhook endpoint available. See the bottom of this file.


Making a request
----------------

All API request URLs start with `https://simplero.com/api/v1/`. 

All requests have to be over HTTPS.


Authentication
--------------

Requests are authenticated using HTTP Basic Auth, with the API key as the username, password left empty.

Failure to provide a valid API key will result in a status 401 (unauthorized) with a JSON body of:

```json
{ "error": "Bad API key" }
```


Identify your application in the User-Agent string
--------------------------------------------------

Include the name of your application and a contact email in your User-Agent string like this:

* `Some app (email@example.test)`

Failure to do so will result in a status 400 (bad request) with a JSON body of:

```json
{ "error": "Incorrect User-Agent" }
```


Example request
---------------

Here's what a complete request looks like:

```shell
curl -u "api_key:" -H 'User-Agent: Some app (test@example.test)' https://simplero.com/api/v1/lists.json
```

To add or update something, include the JSON data with a `Content-Type` header:

```shell
curl -u "api_key:" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'User-Agent: Some app (email@example.test)' \
  -d '{ "first_name": "New Subscriber", "email": "someemail@example.test" }' \
  https://simplero.com/api/v1/lists/1/subscribe.json
```



Contacts
========

Create/update contact
--------------

* `POST /customers.json` will create a new contact, or update an existing contact with the same email

##### POST request body:

```json
{
  "email":                   "calvin@simplero.com",
  "first_name":              "Calvin", 
  "last_name":               "Correli",
  "ip_address":              "77.66.17.105",
  "referrer":                "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "ref":                     123,
  "track":                   "api",
  "first_activated_at":      "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "auto_responder_start_at": "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "landing_page_id":         123,
  "tags":                    "tag1,tag2",
  "note":                    "A new note"
}
```

The only required argument is `email`.

`tags` will add these as additional tags. You cannot remove tags with this API call.

`note` will add a new note to the customer. You cannot remove notes this way.

By default we will not override any existing information, only add new. Set `override` = `yes` to override existing values, except `email` which cannot be changed this way.

##### Response:

```json
{
  "id":                                       1046901344,
  "email":                                    "calvin@simplero.com",
  "created_at":                               "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "updated_at":                               "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "ref":                                      123,
  "track":                                    "api",
  "affiliate_id":                             157416808,
  "lifetime_value_cents_excl_tax":            0,
  "lead_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax":     0,
  "customer_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax": 0,
  "first_names":                              "Calvin",
  "last_name":                                "Correli",
  "do_not_contact":                           false,
  "ip_address":                               "192.168.1.2",
  "referrer":                                 "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "name":                                     "Calvin Correli",
  "simplero_id":                              null,
  "contact_since":                            "less than a minute",
  "tag_names":                                "foo,bar"
}
```

Also included will be any custom contact fields.


Lists
=====


Get lists
---------

* `GET /lists.json` will return all the account's lists

##### Response:

```json
[
  {
    "id":1942123930,
    "name":"Marianne's Universe",
    "internal_name":"Main list",
    "confirm_pending_url":null,
    "created_at":"2013-10-23T16:45:14+02:00",
    "email_field_name":"89aet",
    "reply_to":null,
    "require_confirmation":false,
    "return_to":null,
    "sender_email":"marianne@mariannesclub.com",
    "sender_name":"Marianne",
    "unsubscribed_url":null
  },
  {
    "id":7253003287,
    "name":"Free tips",
    "internal_name":"E-bomb offer 1",
    "confirm_pending_url":null,
    "created_at":"2013-10-23T16:45:14+02:00",
    "email_field_name":"atn23nh2e",
    "reply_to":null,
    "require_confirmation":false,
    "return_to":null,
    "sender_email":"marianne@mariannesclub.com",
    "sender_name":"Marianne",
    "unsubscribed_url":null
  }
]
```

`id` is the id you'd need to use in the URL when subscribing or unsubscribing contacts.

Subscribe to list
-----------------

* `POST /lists/1/subscribe.json` will add a new subscriber to the list

Replace `1` with the id of the list to subscribe to.

##### POST request body:

```json
{
  "first_name":              "Calvin", 
  "last_name":               "Correli",
  "email":                   "calvin@simplero.com",
  "ip_address":              "77.66.17.105",
  "referrer":                "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "ref":                     123,
  "track":                   "api",
  "first_activated_at":      "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "auto_responder_start_at": "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "landing_page_id":         123,
  "tags":                    "tag1,tag2"
}
```

Everything except `email` is optional.

`ip_address` should be the actual IP address that the actual customer used to subscribe to the list. 
It should NOT be a private IP address, nor should it be faked or manipulated in any way.

`landing_page_id` is the landing page (signup form) within Simplero that this conversion should be counted for. 
This is only relevant when using Simplero's conversion tracking featuer.

`ref` is the affiliate ref that this conversion should be attributed to.

`referrer` should be the last external URL visited before the subscribe form.

`track` is any keyword that you wish to associate with this opt-in, so you can track where people came from.

`tags` is a comma-separated string of tags to add to this contact. Individual tags will be trimmed of whitespace at the beginning and end. Everything else will be preserved as-is.

##### Response:

```json
{
  "id": 1073281992,
  "list_id": 51750419,
  "customer_id": 1046904945,
  "return_to": "",
  "active": false,
  "confirmed": false,
  "confirmed_at": null,
  "unsubscribed_at": null,
  "created_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "updated_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "affiliate_id": 157416808,
  "ref": null,
  "track": "api",
  "first_activated_at": null,
  "landing_page_id": 1067655620,
  "confirmation_request_sent_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "confirmation_request_sent_count": 1,
  "auto_responder_start_at": null,
  "skip_auto_responses": false,
  "ip_address": "192.168.1.2",
  "referrer": "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "auto_responder_paused_at": null,
  "suspended_at": null,
  "customer": {
    "email": "calvin@correli.me",
    "first_names": "Calvin",
    "last_name": "Correli",
    "id": 1046904945,
    "created_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
    "updated_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
    "ref": null,
    "track": null,
    "affiliate_id": null,
    "lifetime_value_cents_excl_tax": 0,
    "lead_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax": 0,
    "customer_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax": 0,
    "do_not_contact": false,
    "ip_address": null,
    "referrer": null,
    "name": "Calvin Correli",
    "simplero_id": null,
    "contact_since": "less than a minute",
    "tag_names": "foo,bar"
  }
}
```



Unsubscribe from a list
-----------------------

* `POST /lists/1/unsubscribe.json` will unsubscribe a customer from the list

Replace `1` with the id of the list to subscribe to.

##### POST request body:

```json
{
  "email": "calvin@simplero.com"
}
```

`email` is the email address of the contact to unsubscribe from the list.

##### Response:

```json
{ success: true }
```

When `success` is true it means the contact was successfully unsubscribed.

When `success` is false, it means we couldn't find any contact with this email. The response will be returned using HTTP status code 400 Bad Request.


Webhook endpoint
================

If you're using some other system for selling, and want to hook it up so you can automatically add people to your products in Simplero, which will give them access to the space, this is what you need.

The URL is:

* `POST https://simplero.com/webhook/products/1/purchase`

Replace the number 1 with the ID of the product you want to add people to. You can find that in the admin URL.

You must include the following POST parameters:

* `api_key` - the API key found in your admin interface under Settings > API keys
* `first_names` - first name
* `last_name` - last name
* `email` - email address

We'll take it from there, hook people up with a Simplero ID, email them the auto-responders you've set up, and do anything else that needs to happen.

Commit message:

Added error response for subscribe

README.md, after:

Simplero API Documentation
==========================

The API is REST, using JSON for serialization, with no root element.

You'll notice right away that this API is not exactly complete. If you need anything, please ask.
I'm Calvin Correli (calvin@simplero.com), the founder, CEO, and creator of Simplero, and I'm always open
to your input, and we're flexible about adding additional API calls.

We also have one webhook endpoint available. See the bottom of this file.


Making a request
----------------

All API request URLs start with `https://simplero.com/api/v1/`. 

All requests have to be over HTTPS.


Authentication
--------------

Requests are authenticated using HTTP Basic Auth, with the API key as the username, password left empty.

Failure to provide a valid API key will result in a status 401 (unauthorized) with a JSON body of:

```json
{ "error": "Bad API key" }
```


Identify your application in the User-Agent string
--------------------------------------------------

Include the name of your application and a contact email in your User-Agent string like this:

* `Some app (email@example.test)`

Failure to do so will result in a status 400 (bad request) with a JSON body of:

```json
{ "error": "Incorrect User-Agent" }
```


Example request
---------------

Here's what a complete request looks like:

```shell
curl -u "api_key:" -H 'User-Agent: Some app (test@example.test)' https://simplero.com/api/v1/lists.json
```

To add or update something, include the JSON data with a `Content-Type` header:

```shell
curl -u "api_key:" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'User-Agent: Some app (email@example.test)' \
  -d '{ "first_name": "New Subscriber", "email": "someemail@example.test" }' \
  https://simplero.com/api/v1/lists/1/subscribe.json
```



Contacts
========

Create/update contact
--------------

* `POST /customers.json` will create a new contact, or update an existing contact with the same email

##### POST request body:

```json
{
  "email":                   "calvin@simplero.com",
  "first_name":              "Calvin", 
  "last_name":               "Correli",
  "ip_address":              "77.66.17.105",
  "referrer":                "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "ref":                     123,
  "track":                   "api",
  "first_activated_at":      "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "auto_responder_start_at": "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "landing_page_id":         123,
  "tags":                    "tag1,tag2",
  "note":                    "A new note"
}
```

The only required argument is `email`.

`tags` will add these as additional tags. You cannot remove tags with this API call.

`note` will add a new note to the customer. You cannot remove notes this way.

By default we will not override any existing information, only add new. Set `override` = `yes` to override existing values, except `email` which cannot be changed this way.

##### Response:

```json
{
  "id":                                       1046901344,
  "email":                                    "calvin@simplero.com",
  "created_at":                               "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "updated_at":                               "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "ref":                                      123,
  "track":                                    "api",
  "affiliate_id":                             157416808,
  "lifetime_value_cents_excl_tax":            0,
  "lead_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax":     0,
  "customer_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax": 0,
  "first_names":                              "Calvin",
  "last_name":                                "Correli",
  "do_not_contact":                           false,
  "ip_address":                               "192.168.1.2",
  "referrer":                                 "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "name":                                     "Calvin Correli",
  "simplero_id":                              null,
  "contact_since":                            "less than a minute",
  "tag_names":                                "foo,bar"
}
```

Also included will be any custom contact fields.

##### Error response:

```json
{ "error": "Comma-separated, error-messages" }
```

This will be sent using HTTP status code 422 Unprocessable Entity.

Lists
=====


Get lists
---------

* `GET /lists.json` will return all the account's lists

##### Response:

```json
[
  {
    "id":1942123930,
    "name":"Marianne's Universe",
    "internal_name":"Main list",
    "confirm_pending_url":null,
    "created_at":"2013-10-23T16:45:14+02:00",
    "email_field_name":"89aet",
    "reply_to":null,
    "require_confirmation":false,
    "return_to":null,
    "sender_email":"marianne@mariannesclub.com",
    "sender_name":"Marianne",
    "unsubscribed_url":null
  },
  {
    "id":7253003287,
    "name":"Free tips",
    "internal_name":"E-bomb offer 1",
    "confirm_pending_url":null,
    "created_at":"2013-10-23T16:45:14+02:00",
    "email_field_name":"atn23nh2e",
    "reply_to":null,
    "require_confirmation":false,
    "return_to":null,
    "sender_email":"marianne@mariannesclub.com",
    "sender_name":"Marianne",
    "unsubscribed_url":null
  }
]
```

`id` is the id you'd need to use in the URL when subscribing or unsubscribing contacts.

Subscribe to list
-----------------

* `POST /lists/1/subscribe.json` will add a new subscriber to the list

Replace `1` with the id of the list to subscribe to.

##### POST request body:

```json
{
  "first_name":              "Calvin", 
  "last_name":               "Correli",
  "email":                   "calvin@simplero.com",
  "ip_address":              "77.66.17.105",
  "referrer":                "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "ref":                     123,
  "track":                   "api",
  "first_activated_at":      "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "auto_responder_start_at": "2012-03-22T17:35:50-05:00",
  "landing_page_id":         123,
  "tags":                    "tag1,tag2"
}
```

Everything except `email` is optional.

`ip_address` should be the actual IP address that the actual customer used to subscribe to the list. 
It should NOT be a private IP address, nor should it be faked or manipulated in any way.

`landing_page_id` is the landing page (signup form) within Simplero that this conversion should be counted for. 
This is only relevant when using Simplero's conversion tracking featuer.

`ref` is the affiliate ref that this conversion should be attributed to.

`referrer` should be the last external URL visited before the subscribe form.

`track` is any keyword that you wish to associate with this opt-in, so you can track where people came from.

`tags` is a comma-separated string of tags to add to this contact. Individual tags will be trimmed of whitespace at the beginning and end. Everything else will be preserved as-is.

##### Response:

```json
{
  "id": 1073281992,
  "list_id": 51750419,
  "customer_id": 1046904945,
  "return_to": "",
  "active": false,
  "confirmed": false,
  "confirmed_at": null,
  "unsubscribed_at": null,
  "created_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "updated_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "affiliate_id": 157416808,
  "ref": null,
  "track": "api",
  "first_activated_at": null,
  "landing_page_id": 1067655620,
  "confirmation_request_sent_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
  "confirmation_request_sent_count": 1,
  "auto_responder_start_at": null,
  "skip_auto_responses": false,
  "ip_address": "192.168.1.2",
  "referrer": "http://google.com/search?q=foo",
  "auto_responder_paused_at": null,
  "suspended_at": null,
  "customer": {
    "email": "calvin@correli.me",
    "first_names": "Calvin",
    "last_name": "Correli",
    "id": 1046904945,
    "created_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
    "updated_at": "2016-01-21T09:07:28.471-05:00",
    "ref": null,
    "track": null,
    "affiliate_id": null,
    "lifetime_value_cents_excl_tax": 0,
    "lead_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax": 0,
    "customer_acquisition_cost_cents_excl_tax": 0,
    "do_not_contact": false,
    "ip_address": null,
    "referrer": null,
    "name": "Calvin Correli",
    "simplero_id": null,
    "contact_since": "less than a minute",
    "tag_names": "foo,bar"
  }
}
```



Unsubscribe from a list
-----------------------

* `POST /lists/1/unsubscribe.json` will unsubscribe a customer from the list

Replace `1` with the id of the list to subscribe to.

##### POST request body:

```json
{
  "email": "calvin@simplero.com"
}
```

`email` is the email address of the contact to unsubscribe from the list.

##### Response:

```json
{ success: true }
```

When `success` is true it means the contact was successfully unsubscribed.

When `success` is false, it means we couldn't find any contact with this email. The response will be returned using HTTP status code 400 Bad Request.


Webhook endpoint
================

If you're using some other system for selling, and want to hook it up so you can automatically add people to your products in Simplero, which will give them access to the space, this is what you need.

The URL is:

* `POST https://simplero.com/webhook/products/1/purchase`

Replace the number 1 with the ID of the product you want to add people to. You can find that in the admin URL.

You must include the following POST parameters:

* `api_key` - the API key found in your admin interface under Settings > API keys
* `first_names` - first name
* `last_name` - last name
* `email` - email address

We'll take it from there, hook people up with a Simplero ID, email them the auto-responders you've set up, and do anything else that needs to happen.
